Add flow framework documentation (#6257)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _automating-workflows/workflow-tutorial.md

---
layout: default
title: Workflow tutorial
nav_order: 20
---

# Workflow tutorial

You can automate the setup of common use cases, such as conversational chat, using a Chain-of-Thought (CoT) agent. This page presents a complete example of setting up a CoT agent.

> The setup requires the following sequence of API requests, with provisioned resources used in subsequent requests. The following list is an overview of the steps required for this workflow. The step names correspond to the names in the template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setup requires the following sequence of API requests, with provisioned resources used in subsequent requests. The following list provides an overview of the steps required for this workflow. The step names correspond to the names in the template:
```

1. **Deploy a model on the cluster**

>     * [Step `create_connector_1`](#step-create_connector_1): Create a connector to an externally hosted model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [Step `create_connector_1`](#step-create_connector_1): Create a connector to an externally hosted model.
```

>     * [Step `register_model_2`](#step-register_model_2): Register a model using the connector that you created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [Step `register_model_2`](#step-register_model_2): Register a model using the connector that you created.
```

>     * [Step `deploy_model_3`](#step-deploy_model_3): Deploy the model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [Step `deploy_model_3`](#step-deploy_model_3): Deploy the model.
```

1. **Use the deployed model for inference**

>     * Set up several tools which perform specific tasks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Set up several tools that perform specific tasks:
```

>       * [Step `math_tool`](#step-math_tool): Set up a math tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * [Step `math_tool`](#step-math_tool): Set up a math tool.
```

>       * [Step `ml_model_tool`](#step-ml_model_tool): Set up an ML model tool

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * [Step `ml_model_tool`](#step-ml_model_tool): Set up a machine learning (ML) model tool
```

>     * Set up one or more agents which use some combination of the tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Set up one or more agents that use some combination of the tools:
```

>       * [Step `sub_agent`](#step-sub_agent): Create an agent that uses the math tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * [Step `sub_agent`](#step-sub_agent): Create an agent that uses the math tool.
```

>       * [Step `sub_agent`](#step-sub_agent): Create an agent that uses the math tool

Reviewer: Above, we used "a" math tool.

    * Set up tools representing these agents:

>       * [Step `agent_tool`](#step-agent_tool): Wrap the `sub_agent` so you can use it as a tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * [Step `agent_tool`](#step-agent_tool): Wrap the `sub_agent` so that you can use it as a tool.
```

>     * [Step `root_agent`](#step-root_agent): Set up a root agent which may delegate the task to either tools or another agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [Step `root_agent`](#step-root_agent): Set up a root agent that may delegate the task to either a tool or another agent.
```

> The following sections describe the steps in detail. For the complete template of these steps, see [Complete YAML workflow template](#complete-yaml-workflow-template).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections describe the steps in detail. For the complete workflow template, see [Complete YAML workflow template](#complete-yaml-workflow-template).
```

## Workflow graph

The workflow described in the previous section is organized into a [template](#complete-yaml-workflow-template). Note that you can order the steps in several ways. In the example template, the `ml_model_tool` step is specified right before the `root_agent` step, but you can specify it at any point after the `deploy_model_3` step and before the `root_agent` step. The following diagram shows the directed acyclic graph (DAG) that OpenSearch creates for all of the steps in the order specified in the template.

![Example workflow steps graph]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/automatic-workflow-dag.png){:style="width: 100%; max-width: 600px;" class="img-centered"}

## 1. Deploy a model on the cluster

To deploy a model on the cluster, you need to create a connector to the model, register the model, and deploy the model.

> ### Step `create_connector_1`

Reviewer: Global: The order of words here is a little confusing (and in the list above). I can see why you did it this way, but I'm not a fan.

> The first step in the workflow is to create a connector to an externally hosted model (in the following example, this step is called `create_connector_1`). The content of the `user_inputs` field exactly matches the ML Commons [Create Connector API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/api/connector-apis/create-connector/):

Reviewer 2: Should this read "MLCommons..."?

```yaml
nodes:
- id: create_connector_1
  type: create_connector
  user_inputs:
    name: OpenAI Chat Connector
    description: The connector to public OpenAI model service for GPT 3.5
    version: '1'
    protocol: http
    parameters:
      endpoint: api.openai.com
      model: gpt-3.5-turbo
    credential:
      openAI_key: '12345'
    actions:
    - action_type: predict
      method: POST
      url: https://${parameters.endpoint}/v1/chat/completions
```

> When you create a connector, OpenSearch returns a `connector_id`, which you need to register the model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a connector, OpenSearch returns a `connector_id`, which you need in order to register the model. 
```

```yaml
- id: register_model_2
  type: register_remote_model
  previous_node_inputs:
    create_connector_1: connector_id
  user_inputs:
    name: openAI-gpt-3.5-turbo
    function_name: remote
    description: test model
```

The output of this step is a `model_id`. You must then deploy the registered model to the cluster. 

### Step `deploy_model_3`

The [Deploy Model API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/api/model-apis/deploy-model/) requires the `model_id` from the previous step, as specified in the `previous_node_inputs` field:

```yaml
- id: deploy_model_3
  type: deploy_model
  # This step needs the model_id produced as an output of the previous step
  previous_node_inputs:
    register_model_2: model_id
```

When using the Deploy Model API directly, a task ID is returned, requiring use of the [Tasks API](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/api/tasks-apis/get-task/) to determine when the deployment is complete. The automated workflow eliminates the manual status check and returns the final `model_id` directly.

### Ordering steps

> To order these steps in a sequence, you must connect them by an edge in the graph. When a `previous_node_input` field is present in a step, OpenSearch automatically creates a node with a `source` and `dest` fields for this step. The output of the `source` is required as input for the `dest`. For example, the `register_model_2` step requires the `connector_id` from the `create_connector_1` step. Similarly, the `deploy_model_3` step requires the `model_id` from the `register_model_2` step. Thus, OpenSearch creates the first two edges in the graph as follows in order to match the outputs with the required inputs and raise errors if the required input is missing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To order these steps in a sequence, you must connect them by an edge in the graph. When a `previous_node_input` field is present in a step, OpenSearch automatically creates a node with `source` and `dest` fields for this step. The output of the `source` is required as input for the `dest`. For example, the `register_model_2` step requires the `connector_id` from the `create_connector_1` step. Similarly, the `deploy_model_3` step requires the `model_id` from the `register_model_2` step. Thus, OpenSearch creates the first two edges in the graph as follows in order to match the output with the required input and raise errors if the required input is missing:
```

```yaml
edges:
- source: create_connector_1
  dest: register_model_2
- source: register_model_2
  dest: deploy_model_3
```

If you define `previous_node_inputs`, then defining edges is optional.
{: .note}

## 2. Use the deployed model for inference

> A CoT agent can use the deployed model in a tool using the [ML Commons Agent Framework](Link TBD).  This step doesn’t strictly correspond to an API but represents a component of the body that the Register Agent API requires. This simplifies the register request and allows reuse of the same tool in multiple agents.

Reviewer 2: See previous comments re: MLCommons

> A CoT agent can use the deployed model in a tool using the [ML Commons Agent Framework](Link TBD).  This step doesn’t strictly correspond to an API but represents a component of the body that the Register Agent API requires. This simplifies the register request and allows reuse of the same tool in multiple agents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A CoT agent can use the deployed model in a tool using the [ML Commons Agent Framework](Link TBD). This step doesn’t strictly correspond to an API but represents a component of the body that the Register Agent API requires. This simplifies the register request and allows reuse of the same tool in multiple agents.
```

> A CoT agent can use the deployed model in a tool using the [ML Commons Agent Framework](Link TBD). This step doesn’t strictly correspond to an API but represents a component of the body that the Register Agent API requires. This simplifies the register request and allows reuse of the same tool in multiple agents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A CoT agent can use the deployed model in a tool using the [ML Commons Agent Framework](Link TBD). This step doesn’t strictly correspond to an API but represents a component of the body required by the Register Agent API. This simplifies the register request and allows reuse of the same tool in multiple agents.
```

> A CoT agent can use the deployed model in a tool using the [ML Commons Agent Framework](Link TBD). This step doesn’t strictly correspond to an API but represents a component of the body that the Register Agent API requires. This simplifies the register request and allows reuse of the same tool in multiple agents.

Reviewer: First sentence: "by using"?

### Step `math_tool`

> You can configure other tools that the CoT agent can use. For example, you can configure a math tool as follows. The math tool does not depend on any previous steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure other tools to be used by the CoT agent. For example, you can configure a math tool as follows. This tool does not depend on any previous steps:
```

```yaml
- id: math_tool
  type: create_tool
  user_inputs:
    name: MathTool
    type: MathTool
    description: A general tool to calculate any math problem. The action input
      must be a valid math expression, like 2+3
    parameters:
      max_iteration: 5
```

### Step `sub_agent`

> To use the math tool in the agent configuration, specify it as one of the tools in the `previous_node_inputs` field of the agent. You can add other tools to `previous_node_inputs` as necessary. The agent also needs a large language model (LLM) to reason with the tools, which is defined by the `llm.model_id` field. This example assumes the `model_id` from the `deploy_model_3` step will be used. However, if another model is already deployed, the `model_id` of that previously deployed model could be included in the `user_inputs` field instead:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the math tool in the agent configuration, specify it as one of the tools in the `previous_node_inputs` field of the agent. You can add other tools to `previous_node_inputs` as necessary. The agent also needs a large language model (LLM) in order to reason with the tools. The LLM is defined by the `llm.model_id` field. This example assumes that the `model_id` from the `deploy_model_3` step will be used. However, if another model is already deployed, the `model_id` of that previously deployed model could be included in the `user_inputs` field instead:
```

> To use the math tool in the agent configuration, specify it as one of the tools in the `previous_node_inputs` field of the agent. You can add other tools to `previous_node_inputs` as necessary. The agent also needs a large language model (LLM) to reason with the tools, which is defined by the `llm.model_id` field. This example assumes the `model_id` from the `deploy_model_3` step will be used. However, if another model is already deployed, the `model_id` of that previously deployed model could be included in the `user_inputs` field instead:

Reviewer: What does "to reason with" mean here? Can we use different/clearer phrasing?

```yaml
- id: sub_agent
  type: register_agent
  previous_node_inputs:
    # When llm.model_id is not present this can be used as a fallback value
    deploy-model-3: model_id
    math_tool: tools
  user_inputs:
    name: Sub Agent
    type: conversational
    description: this is a test agent
    parameters:
      hello: world
    llm.parameters:
      max_iteration: '5'
      stop_when_no_tool_found: 'true'
    memory:
      type: conversation_index
    app_type: chatbot
```

> OpenSearch will automatically create the following edges so that the agent can retrieve these fields from the previous node: 

Reviewer: "the" instead of "these"?

```yaml
- source: math_tool
  dest: sub_agent
- source: deploy_model_3
  dest: sub_agent
```

### Step `agent_tool`

> You can use agents as tools for another agent. Registering an agent produces an `agent_id` in the output. The following step defines a tool which uses the `agent_id` from the previous step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use an agent as a tool for another agent. Registering an agent produces an `agent_id` in the output. The following step defines a tool that uses the `agent_id` from the previous step:
```

```yaml
- id: agent_tool
  type: create_tool
  previous_node_inputs:
    sub_agent: agent_id
  user_inputs:
    name: AgentTool
    type: AgentTool
    description: Agent Tool
    parameters:
      max_iteration: 5
```

OpenSearch automatically creates an edge connection because this step specifies the `previous_node_input`:

```yaml
- source: sub_agent
  dest: agent_tool
```

### Step `ml_model_tool`

> A tool may reference an ML model. This example gets the required `model_id` from the model deployed in a previous step:

Reviewer: "a" model? "the" is correct if only one model has ever been deployed in a previous step (which I can't remember 😄).

> A tool may reference a machine learning (ML) model. This example gets the required `model_id` from the model deployed in a previous step:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A tool may reference an ML model. This example gets the required `model_id` from the model deployed in a previous step:
```

```yaml
- id: ml_model_tool
  type: create_tool
  previous_node_inputs:
    deploy-model-3: model_id
  user_inputs:
    name: MLModelTool
    type: MLModelTool
    alias: language_model_tool
    description: A general tool to answer any question.
    parameters:
      prompt: Answer the question as best you can.
      response_filter: choices[0].message.content
```

> OpenSearch automatically creates an edge to use this `previous_node_input`:

Reviewer: Unless the edge is using `previous_node_input`, this should be "in order to use". If the edge is using `previous_node_input`, it would be better to use "that will use". "the" instead of "this"?

```yaml
- source: deploy-model-3
  dest: ml_model_tool
```

### Step `root_agent`

> A conversational chat application will communicate with a single root agent which includes the ML model tool and the agent tool in its `tools` field. It will also obtain the `llm.model_id` from the deployed model. Some agents require tools to be in a specific order, which can be enforced by including the `tools_order` field in the user inputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A conversational chat application will communicate with a single root agent that includes the ML model tool and the agent tool in its `tools` field. It will also obtain the `llm.model_id` from the deployed model. Some agents require tools to be in a specific order, which can be enforced by including the `tools_order` field in the user inputs:
```

> A conversational chat application will communicate with a single root agent which includes the ML model tool and the agent tool in its `tools` field. It will also obtain the `llm.model_id` from the deployed model. Some agents require tools to be in a specific order, which can be enforced by including the `tools_order` field in the user inputs:

Reviewer: Last word: "input" instead of "inputs"?

```yaml
- id: root_agent
  type: register_agent
  previous_node_inputs:
    deploy-model-3: model_id
    ml_model_tool: tools
    agent_tool: tools
  user_inputs:
    name: DEMO-Test_Agent_For_CoT
    type: conversational
    description: this is a test agent
    parameters:
      prompt: Answer the question as best you can.
    llm.parameters:
      max_iteration: '5'
      stop_when_no_tool_found: 'true'
    tools_order: ['agent_tool', 'ml_model_tool']
    memory:
      type: conversation_index
    app_type: chatbot
```

OpenSearch automatically creates edges for the `previous_node_input` sources:

```yaml
- source: deploy-model-3
  dest: root_agent
- source: ml_model_tool
  dest: root_agent
- source: agent_tool
  dest: root_agent
```

> For the complete DAG OpenSearch creates for this workflow, see the [workflow graph](#workflow-graph).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the complete DAG that OpenSearch creates for this workflow, see the [workflow graph](#workflow-graph).
```

> For the complete DAG OpenSearch creates for this workflow, see [the workflow graph](#workflow-graph).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the complete DAG OpenSearch creates for this workflow, see the [workflow graph](#workflow-graph).
```

## Complete YAML workflow template

> The following is the final template including all of these steps in the `provision` workflow in YAML format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is the final template including all of the `provision` workflow steps in YAML format:
```
